blog(release): camera@7.0.0, media@7.0.0, file-transfer@2.0.0 (#1332)
apache/cordova-docs: www/_posts/2023-09-12-camera-media-file-transfer-plugin-release.md

---
layout: post
author:
    name: Bryan Ellis
title:  "Camera 7.0.0, Media 7.0.0 & File-Transfer 2.0.0 Released!"
categories: news
tags: release plugins
---

We are happy to announce that we have just released an update for the following plugins!

* [cordova-plugin-camera@7.0.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cordova-plugin-camera)
* [cordova-plugin-media@7.0.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cordova-plugin-media)
* [cordova-plugin-file-transfer@2.0.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cordova-plugin-file-transfer)

**To upgrade:**

```bash
cordova plugin remove cordova-plugin-file

> cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-file@7.0.0

Reviewer: Think this is suppose to be camera plugin

cordova plugin remove cordova-plugin-media
cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-media@7.0.0

cordova plugin remove cordova-plugin-file-transfer

> cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-file-transfer@7.0.0

Reviewer: file-transfer v2, not v7

* **Removed Deprecated Windows Platforms**

    As the Cordova-Windows platform has been deprecated, the supporting logic for that platform has been removed from this plugin.

* **Ability to load files from custom scheme and leading slash directory paths**

    The file plugin can now accept URL constructed with a custom scheme or a leading slash.

    **Custom Scheme Example:**

    By default, iOS uses the following custom scheme `app://localhost/`. You can now pass in `app://localhost/file.mp4` to prepresent a media file located in the root directory of which the app content is loaded from, `www`.

    **Leading Slash Example:**

    It can also load the same file `file.mp4` from the above example if the provided URL was `/file.mp4`. It will navigate from the root directory of which the app content is loaded from, `www`.

* **Increased Android's Audio Quality**

    From this plugin's version and onward, the Android's captured audio quality has been increased significantly. This was achieved by increasing the bit rate to 96 Kbps and the sampling rate to 44.1 kHz.

>     > **PR's Note:** This plugin uses the AAC encoder, which generally provides better quality audio at a lower bitrate compared against MP3 encoder. While researching acceptable bitrate of AAC compared against MP3, some suggest using 96 Kbps for AAC while MP3 would be 128 Kbps. But this does not mean it is identical. In terms of quality, it will always result in source and equiptment.

Author: ```suggestion
    > **PR's Note:** This plugin uses the AAC encoder, which generally provides better quality audio at a lower bitrate compared against MP3 encoder. While researching acceptable bitrate of AAC compared against MP3, some suggest using 96 Kbps for AAC while MP3 would be 128 Kbps. But this does not mean it is identical. In terms of quality, it will always depend on the source and underlying equipment.
```
